# Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming

Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

For my studies in Mobile Architecture and Programming I was tasked with creating an Android mobile app that functions as a weight tracking app for its users. The app was to consist of a database that requires a username and password login to access with the ability to create an account. The meat of the app was a database that displays user weight/date pairs for tracking a users weight over time. The app also needed to allow for setting a goal weight and to add or remove data pairs.

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

I designed my app with a basic green and blue UI scheme that was an interesting color choice, but also simple. The app consists of a login screen which provides a username and password text entry section and a login or create account button for the user to use accordingly. From there, the app moves to the data page that displays a MP Android Chart line graph with the user goal weight and user data pairs from the database. It also contains two buttons that allow for shifting to the add data page or delete data page. Both of these pages consist of lines for either manipulating weights and dates or the weight goal. I made sure the overall placement of buttons and such was kept the same throughout the app and that the theme remained the same such that the user can easily move between pages and can look at the same places for each page to move between pages. I also ensured that all editable text boxes showed that should go into those boxes so they knew the format they were to use for the various possible user inputs. I feel my UI was successful as it was simple and easy to understand, with a couple testers agreeing it got the job done easily and simply.

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?

I started coding my app with having thought out a plan for what the app would look like. I did not necessarily make any planning or design aids, but I put great forethought into how I wanted my app to flow. I started by creating a functional database that allowed for Create, Read, Update, and Delete operations. I then moved to creating the Login page, as I wanted to create the code in the same logical flowpath a user would utilize the app. Once I got the ability to create an account and do user authentication, I moved to the data page of the app. From here, I ensured the logic to move between all pages, including logging out and going back to the login page, was setup properly. The data page has a linegraph that I ensured work with a random table of data. I then implemented the database to the line graph which of course showed nothing. I then followed that up with implementing the ability to add data to the database in the add data page, which populated in the line graph on the data page. From there finishing up the delete data page was all that was left functionality wise. This approach helped me to understand the logic flow I had imagined. I have used this approach in the past and definitely will bring that forward when application size and complexity allows.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?

I did quite a bit of testing for this app. The username and password boxes are user input and lead to authentication. My slight security layer for the app is obviously important for security reasons. From there, The adding data and deleting data pages have multiple boxes that their values drive what the corresponding buttons do. I did basic testing at first to ensure data was added and delete appropriately, but needed to added input validation to ensure the program did not crash when the user left boxes blank and tried to call methods with buttons. I did not include input validation with my initally perceived final product and found that every single user input box I had could cause the app to crash extremely easily. My app cannot function if it crashes and users will not want to use a buggy mess that has to be intereacted with perfectly to work.

Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

My app included an open source library, MP Android Chart, that allowed for me to bring a more engaging and intersting method of displaying data to my users. I was not required to do this, but I noticed my "competition" on various platforms typically utilized graphing in various forms to provide that extra boost to user experience. It took some self learning to exactly figure out how to use these assets, but I know it added value to my final product.

In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

I have worked with making an app with visuals and multiple pages to move across. I have also done work with making a database that possesses functional CRUD methods. I had, however, never created a user interface on for Android purposes nor worked with Android studio. I also had never pieced together all of the three afforementioned facets. I successfully made an application that encompasses those three things and also provides a useful purpose as a weight tracking application utilizing extra-curricular assets that I added on my own accord to make my program different than the rubric desires.
